{:title "Is Israel's annexation of Palestine justified?"
:layout :post
:tags  ["Palestine" "Israel" "land grab" "colonialism" "imperialism"]}

# Preposition: Israel is justified

Israel is justified  to expand on Palestinian last, in response to aggression.

Another way this argument is built, "All Israel expansions came as a response to Palestinian aggression".


Sykes-Picot Agreement (1916): The agreement between France and Britain divided the Ottoman Empire's Arab territories into areas of influence, with Palestine being assigned to British control.
Balfour Declaration (1917): The declaration by British Foreign Secretary Arthur Balfour pledged support for the establishment of a Jewish homeland in Palestine.
Mandate for Palestine (1920-1948): Under the terms of the League of Nations, Britain was granted a mandate to administer Palestine on behalf of its inhabitants. The mandate included provisions for the eventual transfer of power to an indigenous government or the international community.
Arab Revolt (1920-1921): A series of uprisings and rebellions against British rule in Palestine, which resulted in the deaths of thousands of Arabs and Jews.
Jewish immigration to Palestine (1920s-present): The influx of Jewish immigrants into Palestine, as well as their settlement on land owned by Arab inhabitants, led to tensions and conflicts between the two communities.
Partition Plan (1947): A proposal by the United Nations to partition Palestine into an Arab state and a Jewish state, which was rejected by both sides.
1948 Arab-Israeli War: The war between Israel and its Arab neighbors following the declaration of Israeli independence in 1948, which resulted in the displacement of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians.
Six-Day War (1967): A conflict between Israel and its Arab neighbors that led to Israel's capture of the West Bank, Gaza Strip, Sinai Peninsula, and the Golan Heights.
Oslo Accords (1993-present): A series of agreements between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) aimed at resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through negotiations. The accords have led to the creation of a Palestinian National Authority, but have not resulted in a final peace agreement.
Annexation of East Jerusalem by Israel (1980): Israel's annexation of East Jerusalem following its capture during the Six-Day War was widely condemned and has not been recognized as legitimate by most countries.
Golan Heights annexation by Israel (1981): Similarly, Israel's annexation of the Golan Heights following its capture during the Six-Day War is also widely condemned and has not been recognized as legitimate by most countries.

##

World War I (1914-1918): The defeat of the Ottoman Empire led to the British Mandate for Palestine, established by the League of Nations.

Arab Revolt (1936-1939): This was a nationalist uprising by Palestinian Arabs against British colonial rule and mass Jewish immigration.

United Nations Partition Plan (1947): The UN proposed partitioning Palestine into separate Jewish and Arab states, leading to increased tensions and conflict.

1948 Arab-Israeli War: Following the declaration of the State of Israel, neighboring Arab states invaded. The war ended with the 1949 Armistice Agreements, resulting in significant territorial changes, with Israel expanding beyond the UN partition plan boundaries.

Suez Crisis (1956): A conflict involving Egypt, Israel, the UK, and France. While it didn’t result in lasting territorial changes, it influenced regional dynamics.

Six-Day War (1967): Israel captured the West Bank, Gaza Strip, Sinai Peninsula, and Golan Heights. This war had a significant impact on territorial boundaries and the political landscape.

Yom Kippur War (1973): Egypt and Syria launched a surprise attack on Israel. The war ended with no major territorial changes, but it led to subsequent negotiations.

Lebanon War (1982): Israel invaded southern Lebanon to combat the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). While primarily focused on Lebanon, it affected the Palestinian situation.

First Intifada (1987-1993): A Palestinian uprising against Israeli occupation in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. It led to increased international attention and eventually the Oslo Accords.

Oslo Accords (1993-1995): These agreements aimed to establish a framework for peace and led to the creation of the Palestinian Authority, with limited self-governance in parts of the West Bank and Gaza.

Second Intifada (2000-2005): A period of intensified Israeli-Palestinian violence, which led to further complications in territorial negotiations.

Gaza Disengagement (2005): Israel unilaterally withdrew from the Gaza Strip, dismantling settlements and military presence.

Gaza Wars (2008-2009, 2012, 2014, 2021): A series of conflicts between Israel and Hamas in Gaza, with significant destruction but no formal changes in territorial control.
